Ipa interface overview (#1)
KevinUTAT/oneAPI-samples_wenkaixu_fork: DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/Features/ip_authoring_interfaces_overview/handshake-control/Readme.md

# Streaming Invocation and Conduit Arguments

> This implementation uses a streaming invocation interface and conduits to pass the input pointer arguments instead of the CSR. It uses a single, shared memory-mapped host data interface.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This implementation uses a streaming invocation interface, and conduits to pass the input pointer arguments instead of the CSR. It uses a single, shared memory-mapped host data interface.
```

> This design will show how to specify conduit interfaces using `annotated_arg`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This design shows how to specify conduit interfaces using `annotated_arg`.
```

![](../assets/stream_kernel.svg)

## Invocation Interface - Streaming pipelined interface
In this design, the `SimpleVAdd` kernel uses a streaming pipelined invocation interface. This is explicitly specified using kernel properties. 

> In this design following member functions is added to the kernel functor to specify kernel properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this design, the `SimpleVAdd` kernel uses a streaming pipelined invocation interface. This is explicitly specified using kernel properties. The following member function is added to the kernel functor to specify kernel properties:
```

```cpp
auto get(sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::properties_tag) {
   return sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::properties{
        sycl::ext::intel::experimental::streaming_interface<>,
        sycl::ext::intel::experimental::pipelined<1>};

>   }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
auto get(sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::properties_tag) {
    return sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::properties{
        sycl::ext::intel::experimental::streaming_interface<>,
        sycl::ext::intel::experimental::pipelined<1>
    };
}
```

```

> The property `sycl::ext::intel::experimental::streaming_interface_accept_downstream_stall` specify the streaming invocation interface with downstream ready_in interface for back pressuring. You can choose to remove the downstream ready_in interface by using `sycl::ext::intel::experimental::streaming_interface_remove_downstream_stall` instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The property `sycl::ext::intel::experimental::streaming_interface<>` configures a streaming invocation interface with a `ready_in` interface to allow down-stream components to backpressure. You can choose to remove the `ready_in` interface by using `sycl::ext::intel::experimental::streaming_interface_remove_downstream_stall` instead. If you omit this property, the compiler will configure your kernel with a register-mapped invocation interface.
```

The property `sycl::ext::intel::experimental::pipelined<1>` specifies that this streaming interface is pipelined with an II of 1. Other valid parameterization are:
- **-1**: Pipeline the kernel, and automatically infer lowest possible II at target fMAX.
- **0**: Do not pipeline the kernel.
- **N (N> 0)**: Pipeline the kernel, and force the II of the kernel to be N.
> **Note**: `sycl::ext::intel::experimental::pipelined<>` property only supports kernels with a streaming invocation interface.

Detailed explanation of invocation interfaces can be found in this dedicated [Invocation Interfaces](https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneAPI-samples/tree/master/DirectProgramming/C%2B%2BSYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/Features/experimental/invocation_interfaces) code sample.

## Data Interface

> In this design, all data interfaces (`A_in`, `B_in`, `C_out`, `len`) are implemented as conduits. In kernels with a streaming invocation interface, all unannotated arguments will be implemented as conduits by default. In this design, they are explicitly specified as conduits to demonstrate the `annotated_arg` wrappers with property `sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::conduit`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this design, all kernel arguments (`A_in`, `B_in`, `C_out`, `len`) are implemented as conduits. In kernels with a streaming invocation interface, all unannotated arguments will be implemented as conduits by default. In kernels with a register-mapped invocation interface, all unannotated arguments will be implemented in the control/status register by default. In this design, they are explicitly specified as conduits to demonstrate the `annotated_arg` wrappers with property `sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::conduit`.

Since `A_in`, `B_in` and `C_out` are pointers, they will share a Avalon memory-mapped host interface.
```

# Streaming Invocation and Conduit Arguments
This implementation uses a streaming invocation interface and conduits to pass the input pointer arguments instead of the CSR. It uses a single, shared memory-mapped host data interface.
This design will show how to specify conduit interfaces using `annotated_arg`.

![](../assets/stream_kernel.svg)

## Invocation Interface - Streaming pipelined interface
In this design, the `SimpleVAdd` kernel uses a streaming pipelined invocation interface. This is explicitly specified using kernel properties. 

In this design following member functions is added to the kernel functor to specify kernel properties:
```cpp
auto get(sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::properties_tag) {
    return sycl::ext::oneapi::experimental::properties{
        sycl::ext::intel::experimental::

>             streaming_interface<>,

Reviewer 2: strange formatting here, is that how clang-format auto formats it?

Author: that looks different than the source code, I probably hit return by accident :(

        sycl::ext::intel::experimental::pipelined<1>};
  }
```
The property `sycl::ext::intel::experimental::streaming_interface_accept_downstream_stall` specify the streaming invocation interface with downstream ready_in interface for back pressuring. You can choose to remove the downstream ready_in interface by using `sycl::ext::intel::experimental::streaming_interface_remove_downstream_stall` instead.

The property `sycl::ext::intel::experimental::pipelined<1>` specifies that this streaming interface is pipelined with an II of 1. Other valid parameterization are:
- **-1**: Pipeline the kernel, and automatically infer lowest possible II at target fMAX.
- **0**: Do not pipeline the kernel.
- **N (N> 0)**: Pipeline the kernel, and force the II of the kernel to be N.
> **Note**: `sycl::ext::intel::experimental::pipelined<>` property only supports kernels with a streaming invocation interface.

> ## Data Interface

Reviewer 2: new line here

> - For non-POSIX shells, like csh, use the following command: `bash -c 'source <install-dir>/setvars.sh ; exec csh'`
>
> Windows*:
> - `C:\Program Files(x86)\Intel\oneAPI\setvars.bat`
> - Windows PowerShell*, use the following command: `cmd.exe "/K" '"C:\Program Files (x86)\Intel\oneAPI\setvars.bat" && powershell'`
>
> For more information on configuring environment variables, see [Use the setvars Script with Linux* or macOS*](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/oneapi-programming-guide/top/oneapi-development-environment-setup/use-the-setvars-script-with-linux-or-macos.html) or [Use the setvars Script with Windows*](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/oneapi-programming-guide/top/oneapi-development-environment-setup/use-the-setvars-script-with-windows.html).

### On Linux*

1. Change to the sample directory.
2. Configure the build system for the Agilex™ 7 device family, which is the default.

   ```
   mkdir build
   cd build
   cmake ..
   ```

   > **Note**: You can change the default target by using the command:
   >  ```
   >  cmake .. -DFPGA_DEVICE=<FPGA device family or FPGA part number>
   >  ``` 
   >

>    > Alternatively, you can target an explicit FPGA board variant and BSP by using the following command: 

Reviewer 2: remove mentions of targeting full system

   1. Compile for emulation (fast compile time, targets emulated FPGA device).
      ```
      nmake fpga_emu
      ```
   2. Compile for simulation (fast compile time, targets simulator FPGA device):
      ```
      nmake fpga_sim
      ```
   3. Generate HTML performance report.
      ```
      nmake report
      ```
      The report resides at `vector_add_report.a.prj/reports/report.html`.

   4. Compile for FPGA hardware (longer compile time, targets FPGA device).
      ```
      nmake fpga
      ```

>**Note**: If you encounter any issues with long paths when compiling under Windows*, you may have to create your ‘build’ directory in a shorter path, for example `C:\samples\build`. You can then run cmake from that directory, and provide cmake with the full path to your sample directory.

## Run the Design

### On Linux

#### Run on FPGA Emulator

1. Run the sample on the FPGA emulator (the kernel executes on the CPU).
   ```
   ./vector_add.fpga_emu
   ```

#### Run on FPGA Simulator

1. Run the sample on the FPGA simulator.
   ```
   CL_CONTEXT_MPSIM_DEVICE_INTELFPGA=1 ./vector_add.fpga_sim
   ```

> #### Run on FPGA

Reviewer 2: remove (like in csr-pipes design)
